TITLE: A review of on-device fully neural end-to-end speech recognition and synthesis algorithms.

ABSTRACT: In this talk, we review various end-to-end automatic speech recognition and speech synthesis algorithms and their optimization techniques for on-device applications. Conventional speech recognition systems comprise a large number of discrete components such as an acoustic model, a language model, a pronunciation model, a text-normalizer, an inverse-text normalizer, a decoder based on a Weighted Finite-State Transducer (WFST), and so on. To obtain sufficiently high speech recognition accuracy with such conventional speech recognition systems, a very large language model (up to 100 GB) is usually needed.  Hence, the corresponding WFST size becomes enormous, which prohibits their on-device implementation. Recently, fully neural network end-to-end speech recognition algorithms have been proposed.  Examples include speech recognition systems based on Connectionist Temporal Classification (CTC), Recurrent Neural Network Transducer (RNN-T), Attention-based Encoder-Decoder models (AED), Monotonic Chunk-wise Attention (MoChA), transformer-based speech recognition systems, and so on. The inverse process of speech recognition is speech synthesis where a text sequence is converted into a waveform. Conventional speech synthesizers are usually based on parametric or concatenative approaches. Even though Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems based on the concatenative approaches have shown relatively good sound quality, they cannot be easily employed for on-device applications because of their immense size. Recently, neural speech synthesis approaches based on Tacotron and Wavenet started a new era of TTS with significantly better speech quality. More recently, vocoders based on LPCnet require significantly smaller computation than Wavenet, which makes it feasible to run these algorithms on on-device platforms. These fully neural network-based systems require much smaller memory footprints compared to conventional algorithms.

BIO:

Chanwoo Kim has been a corporate vice president at Samsung research leading the speech processing Lab since Feb. 2018. He has led the end-to-end speech recognition and end-to-end text-to-speech (TTS) research and development at Samsung Research. He has been also working for far-field speech enhancement, key-word spotting and so on. End-to-end ASR and TTS systems have been commercialized for various Samsung products. He was a software engineer at Google speech team between Feb. 2013 and Feb. 2018. He worked for acoustic modeling for speech recognition systems and enhancing noise robustness using deep learning techniques. While working for Google, he contributed to data-augmentation and acoustic modeling of Google speech recognition systems. He was a speech scientist at Microsoft from Jan. 2011 to Jan. 2013. Dr. Kim received his Ph. D. from the Language Technologies Institute of School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University in Dec. 2010. He received his B.S and M.S. degrees in Electrical Engineering from Seoul National University in 1998 and 2001, respectively. Dr. Kim’s doctoral research was focused on enhancing the robustness of automatic speech recognition systems in noisy environments. Between 2003 and 2005 Dr. Kim was a Senior Research Engineer at LG Electronics, where he worked primarily on embedded signal processing and protocol stacks for multimedia systems. Prior to his employment at LG, he worked for EdumediaTek and SK Teletech as a R&D engineer.
